In this demo, I'm going to show you actually how to access S3 from Spark.
The idea also would be that the first thing I need to do is
actually to have a configuration file with an access key and secret key,
and we have shown this I believe all the way from Lesson 3,
how to get the access key and a secret access key,
and we put them in a config file.
Normally, this should be involved in.aws.credentials.
I am putting it here in my local file only under aws/credentials.
So it's clear.
As you know, we should never share our access keys.
Here I'm going to use another package which is Hadoop AWS,
that is the library which is used for us to connect with S3.
When we run that,
we get the Spark also,
session that's going to take a little bit longer than usual to load so be patient.
Then actually we're going to give you this and you're supposed to
upload it in your private bucket.
So you're going to put it in another bucket not that one.
We're going to add a data set that we used in Lesson 1 to explain dimensional modeling.
We get the data frame, we print it,
and seems that separator also is a semicolon here and it's a one-liner.
So we need to do a little bit more.
What do we do? We make the delimiter semicolon,
we infer the schema,
and hey we see there is a header,
we don't want it to become headers data,
and it's going to mess up the inference of the schema.
So we make header equals true.
We do that again and we print the schema and payment_id,
customer_id, stuff_id. Looks good.
Now we still have this idea of a string, payment string here.
That's a date, but got loaded as string.
Fine. No biggie, the problem is as follows,
when you do this,
this also might take a long time because you know what's happening.
In all the past exercises,
we were loading the data,
I mean we had the data on your local machine and we had
the Jupyter Notebook on the same machine.
So actually we are loading the data locally.
What we're doing now is we're loading the data all the way from
Amazon and into the memory of the Jupyter Notebook machine.
That actually works.
That code works,
but I really do not advise you to use that in production at all.
That would only work if you are using a machine inside Amazon,
and also in the same region,
probably in the same region and same availability zone as your S3 bucket.
But anyhow, here we're just doing it to show or prove that actually Spark can deal
with S3 as explained in the lesson and also that we can do schema on it,
and sometimes we need to work a little bit more.